Initial content for the voice and tone section (#1720)
grommet/hpe-design-system: aries-site/src/pages/foundation/voice-and-tone.mdx

## Messaging Voice, Tone, and Content

> Depending on where you look, you will find different definitions for tone and voice.  By reading through many of these different definitions, a picture emerges:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many definitions for tone and voice exist, however, reading through the
various definitions, a common picture emerges:
```

> | **Voice**		                  | **Tone**                                    |

Reviewer: We are adding formatting for markdown tables.

```suggestion
| Voice		                  | Tone                                    |
```

| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Who they hear		              | What they hear                              |
| Personality		                | Attitude                                    |
| How you are doing the writing	| Who they hear                               |
| Style		                      | How your message comes across               |
| What makes us uniquely us		  | How we communicate to our specific audience |

### Voice

> Voice is all about who the reader hears talking in our messaging; it has to do with the worldview of the author. Voice can be spoken, witty, friendly, formal, etc. We can be perceived as being intelligent, experienced, mature, accepting, objective, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Voice is who the reader "hears" delivering messaging; embedded within it is the 
worldview of the author. Voice can be spoken, witty, friendly, formal, etc. 
At HPE, the desire is for HPE's voice to be perceived as intelligent, experienced, 
objective, inclusive, and non-threatening supporting HPE's worldview which 
believes in accelerating what's next, making bold moves, the power of yes we can, and 
being a force for good.
```

> A person's voice typically does not change once established. If our voice (HPE's voice) is inconsistent, people will notice. For example, people notice the difference between writing academically when compared to sounding like a 5-year old. This kind of inconsistency can result in lack of trust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A person's voice typically does not change once established. If HPE's voice is 
inconsistent, people will notice. For example, people notice the difference 
between writing academically when compared to sounding like a 5-year old. This 
kind of inconsistency can result in lack of trust.
```

### Tone

Tone has to do with what is conveyed or how it comes across. It can express seriousness, urgency, playfulness, objectivity, intimacy, condescension, etc.

> Unlike voice, tone can change based on the target audience and the subject matter. It is situational. For example, tone is very different when giving directions during an emergency vs ordering a pizza.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike voice, tone can change based on the target audience, context, and subject 
matter. It is situational. For example, tone is very different when giving 
directions during an emergency compared to when ordering a pizza.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Because tone is situational, it may be tweaked to appropriately fit the context
within an HPE application. While tone may change, the message should be consistently
delivered in [HPE's voice](#voice) supporting the perception of intelligence, 
experience, objectivity, and inclusivity.
```

### Point of View

> Point of view has to do with the perspective from which the message is written. First person perspective uses words like: I, me, us, we, our, etc. Second person uses any form of the word "you" which has the effect of addressing the reader. Third person directs the reader to things that are neither the writer or the reader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Point of view is the perspective from which the message is written. 
First person perspective uses words like: I, me, us, we, our, etc. 
Second person uses any form of the word "you" which has the effect of 
addressing the reader. Third person directs the reader to things that are 
neither the writer or the reader.
```

Examples:

- *We noticed the server is malfunctioning.* (1st person-ish)
- *Your server is malfunctioning.* (2nd person-ish)
- *The server is malfunctioning.* (3rd person - no focus on the writer or the reader)

> ### Our Voice and Tone
> 
> We want our messaging to be informative, concise, and trustworthy. We should be perceived as intelligent, experienced, inclusive and non-threatening. Our messaging should be active, positive, objective, conversational American English written in a third person point of view.

Reviewer: Recommend moving this content to be the opening paragraph on this page.

```suggestion
```

> The following are some high-level guidelines for constructing good messaging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guidelines for Constructing Good Messaging

The following are some high-level guidelines for constructing good messaging:
```

> - Conversational American English
> - Correct grammar and punctuation
> - Active tense
> - Positive, not negative
> - Not robotic sounding
> - Never condescending
> - Establish context
> - Lead with what is most important
> - Inspire trust and confidence
> - Explain using terminology consistent with the UI
> - Avoid charged words like "*error*"
> - Avoid blame casting (on user or on software)
> - State facts without coloring them in opinions
> - Avoid personal pronouns
> - Careful with words like "*Please*"
> - Do not use "*contact your administrator*" (the admin is likely the user) or "*contact HPE*" (HPE might not be the support contact -- it might be a channel partner)
> - Read your message out loud to another person. Is this how you would say it out loud? Does the other person feel this is how two people would converse?

Reviewer: Played with organizing by theme + supporting examples to help break up the content into more digestible chunks.

```suggestion
- Use HPE's voice and tone
    - Conversational American English
    - Correct grammar and punctuation
    - Active tense
    - Human and approachable, not robotic sounding
    - Positive, "yes we can," not negative
    - Never condescending
- Respect the user and their time
    - Establish context
    - Lead with what is most important
    - Explain using terminology consistent with the UI
    - Point the user directly to a resolution. Do not use "*contact your 
    administrator*" or "*contact HPE*" &mdash; the administrator is likely 
    the user and the support contact could be a channel partner. Instead, 
    provide a direct means to connect the user with the party able to resolve 
    the issue.
- Inspire trust and confidence
    - Use informative, concise language
    - State facts without coloring them in opinions
    - Avoid charged words such as "*error*"
    - Focus on the solution, avoid casting blame on the user or software
    - Focus on what is needed to be accomplished, avoid personal pronouns 
    (e.g. I, you, he, she, it, we, they, me, him, her, us, them)
- Ensure the voice is human and humane
    - Read your message out loud to another person. Is this how you would say it out loud? Does the other person feel this is how two people would converse?
```

## Capitalization

The general rule is that things that are sentences should follow sentence capitalization rules. And, things that are titles/headings/labels should follow title capitalization rules.

Sentences follow sentence capitalization rules:

- Paragraphs of text
- Tooltips
- Notifications
- Help

Titles follow title capitalization rules:

- Page/dialog titles
- Section headings
- Attribute labels
- Table column headings
- Legends
- Tabs/Buttons

Capitalize proper nouns. HPE brand and product names are proper nouns.

Fight the urge to elevate normal nouns to proper noun status. For example, if you are in a "data sources" page and need to say something about data sources, do not capitalize it. Unless it is a true proper noun, leave it uncapitalized when following sentence capitalization rules.

DO NOT USE ALL CAPS IN EITHER TITLES OR SENTENCES. It is harder to read and is equated with yelling.

> ## Acronyms

Reviewer: Suggest [proper usage of "acronym"](https://abbreviations.yourdictionary.com/reference/abbreviations/what-is-an-initialism.html) to support HPE's intelligent voice.

```suggestion
## Acronyms & Initialisms
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Acronyms and initialisms can be problematic and should be used with care. 
Because they are shortcuts communicating a concept in a visually shortened form, they 
tend to become distinct languages for a limited set of "insiders." 
However, for those who are less fluent or use the language infrequently, 
acronyms and initialisms are actually detrimental. Acronyms increase the cognitive load 
on the user, forcing them to "decode" the message before comprehension, and tend to 
be exclusionary rather than inclusive.
```

> Do not use an uncommon acronym in messaging without first defining the acronym the first time it is used. Do not use an acronym like this unless it is going to be used multiple times in the message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an acronym or initialism is needed, make sure to define it the first time it is used. 
Additionally, only use the acronym if it is used multiple times in the message.
```

> - Incorrect: *The UBC is meeting tomorrow.*
> - Incorrect: *The UBC (university building council) is meeting tomorrow.*
> - Correct: *The UBC (university building council) is meeting tomorrow. If you have UBC-related business, send it to the UBC administrator for addition to the meeting agenda.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Incorrect: *The UBC is meeting tomorrow.*
- Incorrect: *The UBC (University Building Council) is meeting tomorrow.*
- Incorrect: *The University Building Council (UBC) is meeting tomorrow.*
- Correct: *The University Building Council (UBC) is meeting tomorrow. If you 
have UBC-related business, send it to the UBC administrator for addition to 
the meeting agenda.*
```

	
## Branding

To aid in comprehension, do not use full brand/product names in messaging. Refer to these with shortened names. For example, "*HPE GreenLake LightHouse*" is a mouthful and if needed several times in a sentence, set context and consider using a simpler "*Lighthouse*" the second, third, Nth time.

> A best practice for developers is to use parameter substitution in messaging where branded names occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Maintainability
A best practice for developers is to use parameter substitution in messaging where 
branded names occur.
```

> - Branding can change over time. E.g. GreenLake Central has recently been rebranded to Cloud Services. Implementing messages with `${prodname}` instead of hardcoded messages would make this an easy fix.
> - Use of parameter substitution ensures that brand names are spelled and capitalized consistently in all messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A product's branding is likely to evolve over time. For example, GreenLake Central 
recently rebranded as Cloud Services. Imagine the multitude of instances to which 
the product name was referred. Use of parameter substitution limits the number changes to 
be made while ensuring brand names are spelled and capitalized consistently in all 
messages. Implementing messages with a parameterized `${prodname}` instead of 
hardcoded messages allows for a product's branding to be changed easily, 
confidently, and comprehensively.
```

> - Consider formal and informal substitution values that can be used in different contexts. For example:
> 
> > formal = HPE Ezmeral Container Platform
> >
> > normal = Ezmeral Container Platform
> > 
> > short = Container Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, consider formal and informal substitution values which can be used in 
various contexts. For example:
- formal = HPE Ezmeral Container Platform
- normal = Ezmeral Container Platform 
- short = Container Platform
```

> ## Language DOs and DON'Ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Language Dos and Don'ts
```

**Do this:**

>  - Use words like "a", "an", "the" so we don't sound like a robot.
>  - Add punctuation to the end of each sentence.
>  - Use correct punctuation within a sentence.
>  - Feel free to use contractions.
>  - Adjectives typically come before nouns. 
>    - Incorrect: *the operation specified is…*
>    - Correct: *the specified operation is…*
>  - Adjectives in English appear in a specific order. If this order is violated, the sentence will seem odd.
>    - From the book *The Elements of Eloquence*: ...adjectives in English absolutely have to be in this order: opinion-size-age-shape-color-origin-material-purpose Noun. So you can have a lovely little old rectangular green French silver whittling knife. But if you mess with that word order in the slightest you’ll sound like a maniac. It’s an odd thing that every English speaker uses that list, but almost none of us could write it out.
>    - There's a slightly different order listed in the Cambridge Dictionary.
>    - Therefore: *two failing SATA SSD drives* and not *SSD SATA failing two drives*

Reviewer: Some spaces throwing off formatting.

```suggestion
- Use words like "a", "an", "the" so we don't sound like a robot.
- Add punctuation to the end of each sentence.
- Use correct punctuation within a sentence.
- Feel free to use contractions.
- Adjectives typically come before nouns. 
  - Incorrect: *the operation specified is…*
  - Correct: *the specified operation is…*
- Adjectives in English appear in a specific order. If this order is violated, the sentence will seem odd.
  - From the book *The Elements of Eloquence*: ...adjectives in English absolutely have to be in this order: opinion-size-age-shape-color-origin-material-purpose Noun. So you can have a lovely little old rectangular green French silver whittling knife. But if you mess with that word order in the slightest you’ll sound like a maniac. It’s an odd thing that every English speaker uses that list, but almost none of us could write it out.
  - There's a slightly different order listed in the Cambridge Dictionary.
  - Therefore: *two failing SATA SSD drives* and not *SSD SATA failing two drives*
```

**Don't do this:**

>  - Avoid possessives (e.g. *the server hardware's power is off*).
>  - Eliminate run-on sentences.
>  - Don't overuse the word "please".  While "please" is allowed, starting every action phrase with the word "please" is not appropriate.  In general, we should be limiting the use of "please".
>  - When the subject of a sentence is a specific resource, do not use that resource’s name as an adjective describing a resource type.  Instead, use the type as an adjective describing the resource:
>   - Incorrect: *the ABC uplink set has…*
>   - Correct: *the uplink set "ABC" has…*
>  - It is not necessary to tell the user to *retry the operation* in most cases.  For example, if the user has entered incorrect or illegal values, we only need to tell them to specify correct values and do not also need to tell them to retry the operation.  The retry is intuitive and obvious in these cases.
>  - Never tell the user to retry after *some time*.  Be more specific.  E.g. *after 3 minutes* or *after the refresh has completed"*
>  - Don't tell the user to *try* or *attempt* things. It does not convey confidence. Instead, tell them to do things.
>   - Incorrect: *Try resetting the interconnect.*
>   - Correct: *Reset the interconnect.*
>  - Don't say *bad request*. This is blaming the user.  Just explain what is wrong.
>  - Do not use internal terminology in external messaging.
>  - Do not refer to "the" or "your" administrator in messaging.  More often than not, the user reading the message is the administrator. Be more specific.
>  - When making parenthetical comments…
>   - Don’t add spaces inside the parentheses: *this is bad ( yes it is ).*
>   - Do add spaces outside the parentheses: *this is bad(yes it is).* The exception would be things like “server(s)”.
>  - Avoid incorrect use of the word "input".
>   - Incorrect: *Specify a valid certificate as input.*
>   - Correct: *Specify a valid certificate.*
>   - Incorrect: *One of the input parameters is null.*
>   - Correct: *One of the parameters is null.* or *One of the specified parameters is null.* or *The "name" parameter is null.*

Reviewer: Just eliminating spaces affecting formatting of the list

```suggestion
- Avoid possessives (e.g. *the server hardware's power is off*).
- Eliminate run-on sentences.
- Don't overuse the word "please".  While "please" is allowed, starting every action phrase with the word "please" is not appropriate.  In general, we should be limiting the use of "please".
- When the subject of a sentence is a specific resource, do not use that resource’s name as an adjective describing a resource type.  Instead, use the type as an adjective describing the resource:
  - Incorrect: *the ABC uplink set has…*
  - Correct: *the uplink set "ABC" has…*
- It is not necessary to tell the user to *retry the operation* in most cases.  For example, if the user has entered incorrect or illegal values, we only need to tell them to specify correct values and do not also need to tell them to retry the operation.  The retry is intuitive and obvious in these cases.
- Never tell the user to retry after *some time*.  Be more specific.
  - E.g. "*after 3 minutes*" or "*after the refresh has completed."*
- Don't tell the user to *try* or *attempt* things. It does not convey confidence. Instead, tell them to do things.
  - Incorrect: *Try resetting the interconnect.*
  - Correct: *Reset the interconnect.*
- Don't say *bad request*. This is blaming the user.  Just explain what is wrong.
- Do not use internal terminology in external messaging.
- Do not refer to "the" or "your" administrator in messaging.  More often than not, the user reading the message is the administrator. Be more specific.
- When making parenthetical comments…
  - Don’t add spaces inside the parentheses: *this is bad ( yes it is ).*
  - Do add spaces outside the parentheses: *this is bad(yes it is).* The exception would be things like “server(s)”.
- Avoid incorrect use of the word "input".
  - Incorrect: *Specify a valid certificate as input.*
  - Correct: *Specify a valid certificate.*
  - Incorrect: *One of the input parameters is null.*
  - Correct: *One of the parameters is null.* or *One of the specified parameters is null.* or *The "name" parameter is null.*
```

- Do use this phrase for internal errors where there's nothing else the user can do (i.e. when it is the only resolution).

### Localization

A best practice for developers is to add comments to messages in the properties files or message catalogs. Reviewers and translators (and ultimately, customers) will thank you.

- Document all parameter substitution values. When the value is a resource, be specific. Is it a name? Is it a URI? Is it raw JSON that needs to be encapsulated in curly braces? Or is it pre-formatted JSON that includes curly braces?
- For errors and alerts, document the severity associated with the message.
- Document the type of message (alert, task, etc).
- If the message doesn't document (for the user) full details of how this problem occurs or what to do about it, add the details in comments.
- Some context around the task being performed or the resource category involved is useful.
- Is the message an API-only message (does not appear in the UI)? If yes, document it as such.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

View additional [localization and internationalization](/templates/internationalization) resources.

```

| verify if / check if | | Don't do it. Example: *Please verify if the input is bad*. Are we asking them to ensure it is bad or are we asking them to ensure it is good? |
| invalid | not valid | Machine translation can incorrectly translate "invalid", so it is better to use "not valid". However, it is even better to use neither and instead be specific about what the problem is. For example, if an input is not valid because it is too long, then tell the user the input is too long instead of telling them it is not valid. See: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/i/invalid-not-valid |
| and if | Split into two sentences | Bad example: *Retry the operation and if the problem persists, contact your authorized support representative and provide a support dump*. Good example: *Retry the operation. If the problem persists, contact your authorized support representative and provide a support dump*. In general, each separate option in an error resolution should be either, its own sentence, or in a comma separated list. The last-resort action of contacting support must always be in its own sentence. |

> ## American English
> 
> Our messaging standard is conversational American English. There are differences between English use and spelling in America vs in India or by the British.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Conversational American English

Variations of English are used throughout the world, however to maintain consistency 
in HPE's voice, the messaging standard is to use conversational American English. 

Below are common usage and spelling differences between American, Indian, 
and British English and suggested resolutions for where differences arise.
```

### British English

> Use American spelling, where there is a difference between American and British spelling. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When there is a difference between American and British spelling, use the American spelling. 
```

Many British words are spelled ending in "our" such as "colour". Use the American "or" variant instead: color.

Many British words are spelled ending in "yse" (analyse) or "ise" (realise). Use the American "yze"/"ize" variants instead: analyze/realize.

> Other common differences to be aware of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional common differences:

```

This will also fix the formatting.

| British | American |
| ---- | ---- |
| Licence | License |
| Cancelled | Canceled |
| Centre | Center |
| Catalogue | Catalog |
| Behaviour | Behavior |
| Favourite | Favorite |
| Grey | Gray |

> | Chips | Fries :smile: |
> | Biscuit | Cookie :smile: |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Chips | Fries 😊 |
| Biscuit | Cookie 😊 |
```

> When utilizing a spelling/grammar checker, set your locale to give American English suggestions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using a spelling/grammar checker, set your locale to provide American English suggestions.
```

> ## Messaging Voice, Tone, and Content

Reviewer 2: Wondering if we should provide any sort of Table of Contents at the top of this page to make it easier to navigate/discover the available topics?

Reviewer 3: I would second this as being a good idea

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messaging within HPE applications should be informative, concise, and trustworthy. 
It should be delivered in active, positive, objective, conversational 
American English and written from a third-person [point of view](#point-of-view).
Executed properly, messaging within HPE applications should leave users 
feeling and perceiving HPE and its products to be intelligent, experienced, 
inclusive, and non-threatening. 

## Messaging Voice, Tone, and Content
```

Depending on where you look, you will find different definitions for tone and voice.  By reading through many of these different definitions, a picture emerges:

| **Voice**		                  | **Tone**                                    |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| Who they hear		              | What they hear                              |
| Personality		                | Attitude                                    |
| How you are doing the writing	| Who they hear                               |
| Style		                      | How your message comes across               |
| What makes us uniquely us		  | How we communicate to our specific audience |

### Voice

Voice is all about who the reader hears talking in our messaging; it has to do with the worldview of the author. Voice can be spoken, witty, friendly, formal, etc. We can be perceived as being intelligent, experienced, mature, accepting, objective, etc.

> A person's voice typically does not change once established. If our voice (HPE's voice) is inconsistent, people will notice. For example, as one notices the difference between writing academically when compared to sounding like a 5-year old. This kind of inconsistency can result in lack of trust.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A person's voice typically does not change once established. If our voice (HPE's voice) is inconsistent, people will notice. For example, people notice the difference between writing academically when compared to sounding like a 5-year old. This kind of inconsistency can result in lack of trust.
```

### Tone

Tone has to do with what is conveyed or how it comes across. It can express seriousness, urgency, playfulness, objectivity, intimacy, condescension, etc.

Unlike voice, tone can change based on the target audience and the subject matter. It is situational. For example, tone is very different when giving directions during an emergency vs ordering a pizza.

### Point of View

Point of view has to do with the perspective from which the message is written. First person perspective uses words like: I, me, us, we, our, etc. Second person uses any form of the word "you" which has the effect of addressing the reader. Third person directs the reader to things that are neither the writer or the reader.

Examples:

- *We noticed the server is malfunctioning.* (1st person-ish)
- *Your server is malfunctioning.* (2nd person-ish)
- *The server is malfunctioning.* (3rd person - no focus on the writer or the reader)

> ### Our Voice and Tone

Reviewer 2: I think leading this page with ground rules on what voice, tone, and point of view are is good. However, I'm wondering if there is any way to make this section a little more apparent as a focus area for people coming into the page.

Reviewer: Agree. This is the "purpose" of this page and should lead. All other information should is supporting this purpose. 

I made a suggestion to add this content as the opening paragraph in the page and recommend we remove it hear.

> ### Our Voice and Tone

Reviewer 2: I think leading this page with ground rules on what voice, tone, and point of view are is good. However, I'm wondering if there is any way to make this section a little more apparent as a focus area for people coming into the page.

We want our messaging to be informative, concise, and trustworthy. We should be perceived as intelligent, experienced, inclusive and non-threatening. Our messaging should be active, positive, objective, conversational American English written in a third person point of view.

The following are some high-level guidelines for constructing good messaging:

> - Conversational American English

Reviewer 2: Would it be helpful for some of these to do a "Correct" and "Incorrect" example like you have in the sections below?

- Paragraphs of text
- Tooltips
- Notifications
- Help

Titles follow title capitalization rules:

- Page/dialog titles
- Section headings
- Attribute labels
- Table column headings
- Legends
- Tabs/Buttons

Capitalize proper nouns. HPE brand and product names are proper nouns.

Fight the urge to elevate normal nouns to proper noun status. For example, if you are in a "data sources" page and need to say something about data sources, do not capitalize it. Unless it is a true proper noun, leave it uncapitalized when following sentence capitalization rules.

DO NOT USE ALL CAPS IN EITHER TITLES OR SENTENCES. It is harder to read and is equated with yelling.

## Acronyms

Do not use an uncommon acronym in messaging without first defining the acronym the first time it is used. Do not use an acronym like this unless it is going to be used multiple times in the message.

- Incorrect: *The UBC is meeting tomorrow.*
- Incorrect: *The UBC (university building council) is meeting tomorrow.*
- Correct: *The UBC (university building council) is meeting tomorrow. If you have UBC-related business, send it to the UBC administrator for addition to the meeting agenda.*
	
## Branding

> To aid in comprehension, do not use full brand/product names in messaging. Refer to these with shortened names. For example, "*HPE GreenLake LightHouse*" is a mouthful and if needed several times in a sentence, set context and consider using a simpler "*Lighthouse*" the second, third, Nth time.

Reviewer 2: Are these contractions cleared by branding/are there certain shortened names that can be used vs cannot be used for very products?

Author: Any shortened names would have to be cleared by either the affected product team or by brand

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Formal and Familiar Product Names
To aid comprehension, refer to brand/product names in their familiar, shortened form, 
and reserve usage of their formal, full name. For example, "*HPE GreenLake LightHouse*" 
is quite lengthy; if needed several times in a sentence, set context initially and 
consider using a simpler "*LightHouse*" the second, third, Nth time.
```

A best practice for developers is to use parameter substitution in messaging where branded names occur.

> - Branding can change over time. E.g. GreenLake Central has recently been rebranded to Cloud Services. If messages had contained `${prodname}`, this would have been an easy fix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Branding can change over time. E.g. GreenLake Central has recently been rebranded to Cloud Services. Implementing messages with `${prodname}` instead of hardcoded messages would make this an easy fix.
```

- Use of parameter substitution ensures that brand names are spelled and capitalized consistently in all messages.
- Consider formal and informal substitution values that can be used in different contexts. For example:

> formal = HPE Ezmeral Container Platform
>
> normal = Ezmeral Container Platform
> 
> short = Container Platform

## Language DOs and DON'Ts

> Do this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Do this:**
```

 - Use words like "a", "an", "the" so we don't sound like a robot.
 - Add punctuation to the end of each sentence.
 - Use correct punctuation within a sentence.
 - Feel free to use contractions.
 - Adjectives typically come before nouns. 
   - Incorrect: *the operation specified is…*
   - Correct: *the specified operation is…*
 - Adjectives in English appear in a specific order. If this order is violated, the sentence will seem odd.
   - From the book *The Elements of Eloquence*: ...adjectives in English absolutely have to be in this order: opinion-size-age-shape-color-origin-material-purpose Noun. So you can have a lovely little old rectangular green French silver whittling knife. But if you mess with that word order in the slightest you’ll sound like a maniac. It’s an odd thing that every English speaker uses that list, but almost none of us could write it out.
   - There's a slightly different order listed in the Cambridge Dictionary.
   - Therefore: *two failing SATA SSD drives* and not *SSD SATA failing two drives*

> Don't do this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Don't do this:**
```

**Image goes here**

## Miscellany

### Quoting

In messaging that contains user-specified content, use double-quotes around this content if it is not rendered as a hyperlink. If user-content is rendered as a hyperlink, the hyperlink styling is sufficient to offset the content from other text in the message.

Why is this important? User-entered names can contain spaces, and if they are not quoted or rendered as hyperlinks, they can hinder comprehension of a message.  

Here is a correct example: *the uplink set "{0}" has a problem*. Compare this to an incorrect example: *the uplink set {0} has a problem*. If the uplink set is named "deleted", this will read as *the uplink set deleted has a problem*.

### Referring to support

- Do not tell the user to contact their administrator. The user is likely the administrator.
- Do not tell the user to contact HPE. A 3rd party may be providing support to the customer.
- Use something like: *Contact your authorized support representative.*
- Do not overuse this phrase. If the resolution to a problem is clear, just give the resolution and do not add that the user should contact support.

> - Contacting support costs everypone time and money, so do not turn every issue into a potential support issue. It makes our product seem unnecessarily fragile and can result in unnecessary support calls.

Reviewer 4: typo: everypone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contacting support costs everyone time and money, so do not turn every issue into a potential support issue. It makes our product seem unnecessarily fragile and can result in unnecessary support calls.
```

- Do use this phrase for internal errors where there's nothing else the user can do (i.e. when it is the only resolution).

> ### Localization

Reviewer 2: We've recently added a page with Internationalization/Localization guidance. Should we link it here? https://design-system.hpe.design/templates/internationalization

A best practice for developers is to add comments to messages in the properties files or message catalogs. Reviewers and translators (and ultimately, customers) will thank you.

- Document all parameter substitution values. When the value is a resource, be specific. Is it a name? Is it a URI? Is it raw JSON that needs to be encapsulated in curly braces? Or is it pre-formatted JSON that includes curly braces?
- For errors and alerts, document the severity associated with the message.
- Document the type of message (alert, task, etc).
- If the message doesn't document (for the user) full details of how this problem occurs or what to do about it, add the details in comments.
- Some context around the task being performed or the resource category involved is useful.
- Is the message an API-only message (does not appear in the UI)? If yes, document it as such.

### Scale

Consider singular and plural use cases and craft messages for each.

> If a sentence contains a list, do not allow the length of the list to be unbounded. Instead, consider a construct like this: *The following policies have not been implemented: Policy A, Policy B, Policy C, and 5 others.*

Reviewer 2: Is there any guidance on how many items to show before bounding? > 3 maybe?

Author: >3 is what we have used in the past.

- *Robert’); DROP TABLE Students;--* (see: [https://xkcd.com/327/](https://xkcd.com/327/))

User-generated input can be arbitrarily long. When confronted with displaying user-generated input, plan for the 80% case, but define which of truncation (with hover) or wrapping will be used.

## Other Common Problems and How To Address Them
 
The following are commonly misspelled/mis-capitalized terms:

- The following must be spelled/capitalized as shown:
  - Kubernetes
  - Ethernet
  - Fibre Channel
  - FCoE
  - SNMP, SNMPv3
  - ID (not id or Id)
  - OK (not ok, Ok, or okay)
  - I/O (not IO or i/o)
  - API (not xApi) (either that, or be explicit and say X-API-Version)
- "Log in" is a verb (e.g. "Log in to the server").
- "Login" is a noun or adjective (e.g. "The login token has expired").
- Use the word "and" instead of an ampersand "&".
- Filesystem is one word.
- Use "host name" when referring to the name of a host.
- Use "hostname" when referring to the Unix command.

The following table contains a set of common mistakes found in messaging, along with suggested corrections:

> | Don't	| Do |Notes |

Reviewer 2: More a comment for our team, but wondering if we should do some custom markdown styling to make these tables a bit more readable.

| and if | Split into two sentences | Bad example: *Retry the operation and if the problem persists, contact your authorized support representative and provide a support dump*. Good example: *Retry the operation. If the problem persists, contact your authorized support representative and provide a support dump*. In general, each separate option in an error resolution should be either, its own sentence, or in a comma separated list. The last-resort action of contacting support must always be in its own sentence. |

## American English

Our messaging standard is conversational American English. There are differences between English use and spelling in America vs in India or by the British.

### British English

Use American spelling, where there is a difference between American and British spelling. 

Many British words are spelled ending in "our" such as "colour". Use the American "or" variant instead: color.

Many British words are spelled ending in "yse" (analyse) or "ise" (realise). Use the American "yze"/"ize" variants instead: analyze/realize.

Other common differences to be aware of:

> | British | American |

Reviewer 4: Formatting issues

| ---- | ---- |
| Licence | License |
| Cancelled | Canceled |
| Centre | Center |
| Catalogue | Catalog |
| Behaviour | Behavior |
| Favourite | Favorite |
| Grey | Gray |
| Chips | Fries :smile: |
| Biscuit | Cookie :smile: |

When utilizing a spelling/grammar checker, set your locale to give American English suggestions.

### Indian English

This is a collection of common words or phrases used in India, that are not used in American English:

| If you find yourself using this… | Example | Use this instead | Why? |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Sorted | *The feature is not sorted.* | Use either "elaborated", "thought through", "analyzed", "planned". | Confusing. "Sorted" implies sorting in the computer sense. |
| Thus / Hence | *…, thus you must factory reset.* | Use "therefore". | Uncommon or too formal. |
| Do the needful | *The server is down. Do the needful.* | This is similar to "do what is necessary" or "do whatever it takes", but neither should be used in our messaging. Instead, be specific about what the user should do. | Never used. We should always be specific. |

> | We will revert back | I send an email saying "do it like this" and you reply, *Thanks, we will revert back.* | *We will get back to you.&* | "Revert back" implies going back to a previous revision. |

Reviewer 4: & typo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| We will revert back | I send an email saying "do it like this" and you reply, *Thanks, we will revert back.* | *We will get back to you.* | "Revert back" implies going back to a previous revision. |
```

Messaging within HPE applications should be informative, concise, and trustworthy.
It should be delivered in active, positive, objective, conversational
American English and written from a third-person [point of view](#point-of-view).
Executed properly, messaging within HPE applications should leave users
feeling and perceiving HPE and its products to be intelligent, experienced,

> inclusive, and non-threatening.

Reviewer 2: I like this suggestion.

> inclusive, and non-threatening.

Reviewer 2: Chatted with Matt, going to update to "welcoming".

> inclusive, and non-threatening.

Reviewer 2: Misread his comment, keeping as "trustworthy".

> ## Messaging Voice, Tone, and Content

Reviewer 5: It might be a good idea to change the title of the page to something broader like "Communication" or "Content" (instead of "Voice and Tone"). If we do that, then the heading of this particular section can be updated to "Voice and Tone"

Reviewer 2: I am going to leave this suggestion for further discussion after this PR.

Because tone is situational, it may be tweaked to appropriately fit the context
within an HPE application. While tone may change, the message should be consistently
delivered in [HPE's voice](#voice) supporting the perception of intelligence,
experience, objectivity, and inclusivity.

### Point of View

Point of view is the perspective from which the message is written.
First person perspective uses words like: I, me, us, we, our, etc.
Second person uses any form of the word "you" which has the effect of
addressing the reader. Third person directs the reader to things that are
neither the writer or the reader.

Examples:

- _We noticed the server is malfunctioning._ (1st person-ish)
- _Your server is malfunctioning._ (2nd person-ish)
- _The server is malfunctioning._ (3rd person - no focus on the writer or the reader)

## Guidelines for Constructing Good Messaging

The following are some high-level guidelines for constructing good messaging:

- Use HPE's voice and tone
  - Conversational American English
  - Correct grammar and punctuation
  - Active tense
  - Human and approachable, not robotic sounding
  - Positive, "yes we can," not negative

>   - Never condescending

Reviewer 5: Curious to see if others agree: should we add in a paragraph about writing for all grade reading levels? This has been a best practice is my previous org, and given that HPE's customer base is global (and probably very busy!) it might be a good idea to include here. We could say something like:

"Consider writing for all reading levels to ensure clear, straightforward and efficient communication. A good benchmark to consider while writing is a United States grade 7 reading level. Check for grade reading level using an app like http://www.hemingwayapp.com/"
